welcome back to movies explained today
we are going to be looking at the 2018
film the drift a woman named tommy wakes
up inside a boat surrounded by water she
tries to look around and spot her
boyfriend richard but she can't find him
there are things floating all around her
when she tries to move and find a way
out after struggling and trying multiple
times she can get outside and finds
herself alone in the middle of nowhere
the waves are striking and the boat is
in the middle of an ocean with no sign
of any land or ships she shouts and
cries and calls out for richard the
scene goes to the past where tommy is
coming out of the boat carrying her
stuff she says goodbye to everyone as
she goes to get a ticket for tahiti the
man on the counter asks her about her
profession and how long she's planning
to stay there tommy tells him that she
doesn't know when she will be coming
back or her destination she leaves the
next scene is in tahiti where she is
cleaning the boat with deb deb asks
tommy about the reason for coming to
tahiti tommy tells her about the winds
fascinating her she tells her about a
recent gig that ended and says that she
was free to go home but didn't feel like
going back yet deb asks tommy about her
home and she tells her about living in
san diego california a man appears with
his boat maluga and asks the girls to
help him out richard introduces himself
to deb and shows gratitude towards the
girls for helping him out tommy wakes up
in the morning and goes out she fills a
bucket with ice and takes it to richard
richard who is slicing the fish takes
the bucket from tommy he asks her over
for dinner to which tommy agrees she
tells him that she's a vegetarian and
likes to see the fish alive rather than
dead richard tells tommy about the many
experiences he had on maluga tommy is
amazed to know that maluga was built by
richard when he worked at a boatyard
while they are eating and drinking tommy
asks richard about sailing alone he
first jokes about the miserable
experience but then says it's a feeling
i can't describe it's intense the
infinite horizon i feel as if i am
reborn he describes the feeling of the
boat cutting through the ocean with the
wind blowing in his face he apologizes
to tommy for being so cheesy and then
guesses about tommy being a sailor she
tells him that she is not exactly a
sailor but knows a thing or two about it
richard asks tommy to take meluga out
for sailing they go out in the middle of
the ocean and have fun the scene shifts
to tommy crying and looking for richard
she tries to locate him by looking
through binoculars but she can't see him
she goes down to use the radio and reach
out for help but all she hears is static
and she cannot make contact with anyone
she tries to adjust to frequency but all
in vain she cries and shouts the boat is
sinking she keeps calling for richard
richard and tommy are hiking in a forest
tommy spots a stream and jumps into the
water while richard follows her and
swims to find her he spots her sitting
under the water holding her breath both
of them come to the surface and laugh
richard says to her i have never met
anyone like you before you are fearless
like a bloke tommy laughs and replies i
have also never met anyone like you
sensitive as a woman and starts laughing
tommy is sitting on a beach while
richard takes her photo he sits next to
her and kisses her under the shadow of a
palm tree tommy wakes up exhausted
resting on the edge of the boat she
looks around and spots a lost dinghy
with richard clinging to it she tries to
start the motor but it doesn't work she
gets the wheel moving and starts fixing
the boat so it can move she falls into
the water and finds the boat drifting
away she swims as fast as she can and
reaches closer to the boat she climbs
the ladder and gets in she uses tape to
patch up some of the cracks and openings
pumps the water out and finally when the
boat starts going she becomes happy and
cheers richard is decorating the boat
with pictures of him and tommy from
different places he goes out to tommy
while she's sunbathing he hands her a
gift box and asks her to open it tommy
unpacks the gift and finds a new dress
in the box she becomes happy seeing the
dress tommy completes the rest of the
fixing and spreads the clothes to dry
she takes a look around with binoculars
but doesn't spot any movement at first
but later spots richard and shouts
almost there she brings the boat closer
to him attaches a safety harness and
swims to get to richard she reaches him
and swims him back to the boat she takes
a look at his body after seeing him
groaning in pain and finds that richard
has broken ribs and a very badly injured
leg with the help of some materials from
the boat she manages to make a bandage
for his leg wound tommy and richard are
in a market looking at different flowers
when he hands tommy the flower of love
franjapani and tells her about it they
are having dinner when tommy tells
richard about her sweet 16 she tells him
that her mom took her to a bar where she
had 10 shots of midori and it was the
worst hangover she ever had richard
guesses that her mother was also the
wild type a person young to heart tommy
tells him that her mother was 15 when
she conceived tommy but on her sweet 16
she was 31 she tells him about being
raised by her dad's parents she tried to
run away a few times but then waited to
graduate so she could split tommy tells
richard about the crazy experience of
living on a bus with her girlfriend from
buying a salsa company to surfing every
day tommy makes richard dance with her
and they have a lovely romantic time
together richard asks tommy will you
sail around the world with me to which
tommy remains quiet and laughs softly
they are in a market deciding which
place they should be sailing to first
tommy tells richard about going to japan
and that she always wanted to go there
richard becomes happy and replies it's
been number one on my list they decide
to sail to japan richard says to tommy
we will go anywhere you want us to go
they are coming out of the market when
they encounter peter and christine
richard greets them both and introduces
tommy to them as his girlfriend peter
asks them over for coffee they are in a
coffee shop peter offers richard to sail
his yacht back to san diego he offers
richard ten thousand dollars richard
agrees to take his honor back to
california on the condition of getting a
return ticket for tommy too peter agrees
and makes a deal with richard two days
adrift tommy calculates their location
she tells richard that she sucks at math
and that it's not a good idea for her to
be in charge richard says you can do
anything once you put your mind to it
tommy tells him about her mom who always
used to say that she has a strong mind
they both talk about their lives how
they went differently from what their
parents wanted for them tommy says that
she would have been like her mother
living in the suburbs with kids while
richard guesses being in the naval
academy as per his father's wish tommy
looks around and says we are somewhere
far away richard tells her that they are
drifting he gets the details of their
location from tommy tommy is scared of
dying in the boat because no one knows
where they are but richard tells her
everything is gonna be okay
before going to california tommy sits
down when richard comes and asks her are
you okay tommy tells him i don't want to
feel like i'm following you in your
adventure i get that it's a really cool
opportunity but i am not really looking
to go home yet richard tells her that he
is going to say no and they can do what
tommy wants he says i have sailed half
the world to find you i am not letting
the go tommy smiles and asks him when
they're going to see the big bad boat
back on the drifting ship tommy is
checking the direction of the boat
richard guesses that they will reach san
diego in 25 days but if the wind
continues to flow the way it is flowing
their path can be altered tommy suggests
going to hawaii richard tells her that
most sailors never made it there and the
chances of survival are significantly
less but tommy decides to take the route
to hawaii richard agrees with her and
guides her in the direction christine
and peter are talking about their visit
to london richard asks them the reason
why they're going peter tells them about
the deteriorating health of christine's
father he thanks richard again and
leaves to get some ginger bears from his
house leaving tommy and richard to get
comfortable in the ship tommy becomes
fascinated by the interior of the boat
she starts writing to her mother she
tells her that she is finally coming
home and this time she will be bringing
her new boyfriend who she thinks is the
only one for her she describes richard
to her mom and tells her that he is
english a bit older than her and has
been with her for a few months she's
excited to go and see her mom and
grandparents the scene shifts to the
boat where tommy is collecting items not
destroyed by the water she manages to
bring all the salvaged items in a bag to
richard she gives him some water and
then asks him to close his eyes when he
opens them he finds a jar of peanut
butter in tommy's hand they both eat it
and enjoy the goodness of actually
having something delicious to eat before
the boat gets twisted in the storm tommy
and richard are lying side by side
looking at the gorgeous sunset tommy
describes it as red while richard says
it is beat dyed pomegranate they both
laugh
five days adrift and tommy is looking at
some paperwork trying to figure their
location she tells richard about losing
the latitudes she gets up and grabs
something to eat from their supplies
when richard stops her and asks her to
ration she goes inside the boat again
and looks for some other stuff she finds
a tube of lotion and enjoys its
fragrance she comes out and applies it
on richard's face she checks his wound
and changes his dressing while he groans
in pain tommy is counting the number of
tins of food remaining she realizes that
the food isn't going to last for more
than a few days richard suggests getting
protein from the fish but she disagrees
with him and says i am not going to kill
any fish i am not going to make
something suffer richard asks her to
save food for herself as he is just dead
weight with broken ribs and shattered
legs tommy finally goes into the water
to catch some fish she tries and fails
multiple times but richard motivates her
and keeps repeating you can do it tommy
is sitting when it starts raining tommy
becomes happy and gets lost in the
moment she drinks the rainwater collects
it and asks richard to drink it too 18
days adrift tommy finds bottles of beer
and she drinks and cherishes its taste
she takes a guitar and sings one of the
songs richard used to sing to her
richard shows regret for bringing her on
the trip and everything that happened to
her tommy says if this wouldn't have
happened i wouldn't have us to remember
i wouldn't trade this for anything the
scene goes back where tommy is asking
richard about the death of his mom he
tells her of his mother's suicide when
he was just seven he tells tommy about
his mother's voice he hears in his head
and that it guides him in doing what's
right tommy asks so what is she saying
at this moment richard goes down on his
knees and proposes tommy to marry him he
takes out a ring he made himself and
gives it to tommy she immediately says
yes to his marriage proposal tommy wakes
in the middle of the night and sees a
huge ship she tries to signal them to
get some help but they don't get her
signal and pass by she starts crying and
wonders if he is hallucinating tommy
asks richard are we dead to which he
says we are exhausted dehydrated and
delirious but not dead tommy looks at
richard's wound gives him some water and
shares her food with him tommy tries to
keep richard awake the scene goes back
to the day of the storm tommy and
richard are looking at the land bird
they find in the middle of the ocean and
are fascinated by it a man on the radio
informs all the sailors about a class 4
storm and advises all the boats safely
richard and tommy decide not to alter
their path and make changes to keep them
safe during the storm the storm hits and
richard and tommy try to stay safe but
the storm grows violent richard tries to
talk to the radio and signal for help he
asks tommy to go inside says to her i
love you when they get separated by the
storm
tommy is sitting when she says i am
gonna let you go now i will love you
forever she gets up and richard is not
there it is revealed that richard was
never found after the storm and all this
time tommy was hallucinating moments
with him after 41 days of trying to
survive she spots the land bird like she
did once before with richard she sees
land and is happy to be alive she
signals them and the crew members get
her and offer her some food after some
time tommy goes to see richard's boat
and cries looking at the pictures she
stands on the shore sets her ring on the
flower of love and lets it go the movie
ends with images of the real tommy and
richard
[Music]
you